
# Requirements
- Python 3.8 or higher
- Uv package manager
- Docker (for containerized execution with planutils)

Only tested on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS

# Setup
1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies using Uv:
```bash
uv sync
```
3. Run the experinet generators to create problem instances. The problem generator will use problem generator scripts located in the `level_gen` directory to create problem instances for testing planners. Each generator script corresponds to a specific type of problem instance. Problem generators create ascii files representing Bloxorz levels, which can be found in the `levels` directory after generation. These ascii levels are then fed into a pddl generator to create PDDL problem files associated with the base adl domain file located in `domain2.pddl`. This domain file and the generated problem files are then fed into `adl2strips` to be ground into STRIPS format for use by planners. 
```bash
generate_problems.py
```

3. Build and run the Docker container for experiments:

```bash
sudo docker rm -f $(sudo docker ps -aq)
sudo docker build --pull --no-cache -t experiments .
sudo docker run -it --privileged experiments bash
```

4. Inside the docker container, install the required planners
```bash
planutils install ipc2023_odin
planutils install ipc2023_scorpion_2023
planutils install ipc2023_fdss_2023_agl
```

5. Inside the docker container, run the solve script:
The `solve.py` script is copied into the container and used to run various planners on the generated problem instances. It supports multiple planners and can be configured to run specific planners or all available planners. The results, including time taken, expanded states, and plan length, are recorded in a CSV file for analysis.
```bash
solve.py
```

6. copy the results file from the docker container to the host machine:
```bash
docker cp <container_id>:/path/to/results/<results_name>.csv ./results/<results_name>.csv
```

7. Outside of the docker container, plot results:
The `plot.py` script is used to visualize the results obtained from running planners on the problem instances. It reads the CSV file generated by `solve.py` and creates plots to compare the performance of different planners across various problem instances.
```bash
plot.py
```